SPEAKER: "Circular
dependency in DI detected."
You'll encounter
this error when you
have a dependency that depends
on itself, either directly
or, more often, indirectly.
A runtime error will be thrown
in the browser console telling
you which class is affected.
But what's perhaps
more useful is
a warning that can be
seen both in the console
and in the terminal.
Most importantly,
it provides the path
of the circular dependency.
If we look closely,
it's telling us
we have a storage
class that injects
a user class, which itself
depends on the original storage
class.
Let's go ahead and look
at a simple reproduction,
and then we'll take some time
to go in-depth about Angular's
dependency injection system.
If we take a look
at our source code,
you'll notice we have two
services, user and storage.
The problem is that
user has injected
storage in its
constructor and storage
has injected user
in its constructor,
putting them in an impossible
codependent relationship.
The solution to this
problem is to break
the loop, which will most
likely require some refactoring.
It's perfectly OK
for an injectable
to depend on another injectable,
but the relationship can only
go one way, which
means in this case,
we need to refactor to
remove the user service
from storage, or vice versa--
remove the storage
service from user.
And generally speaking,
it's a good idea
to minimize the
number of dependencies
in an injectable
service because that
will reduce the likelihood
of similar issues
coming up in the future.
Now, in our storage
class, we have a method
to write the user
to the database,
but it depends on the user
service for the current user
value.
We can address the problem
here by refactoring our code
to take the user
value as an argument
rather than inject
the entire user class.
Not only does that allow
us to remove the dependency
from the constructor, it will
also make this code easier
to unit test because you don't
have an additional dependency
to mock or worry about.
And the method only depends
on its input arguments,
making it easier
to reason about.
Now, if we go ahead and save
our changes, the error is gone.
But before we wrap
things up, let's
take a deeper look at
Angular's dependency injection
to understand why this error
happens in the first place.
When you generate a service
with the Angular CLI,
you'll notice how the class
is decorated with injectable.
When used with the
provided end root option,
Angular will
instantiate the class
and make it visible throughout
the entire application.
Unlike a component, this class
is only instantiated once
as a singleton.
Now, imagine two classes
that depend on each other.
How do you determine which
one to instantiate first?
It's a classic "chicken
or the egg" paradox.
And that just doesn't work when
you're following the dependency
and version principle.
Let's go ahead and recap.
When you encounter "Circular
dependency and DI detected,"
the first step is to determine
which dependencies create
a loop by mapping
out the dependencies
and the constructor of
your component's modules
and services.
Once identified, you can
then refactor your code
to break the loop.
For additional
details and examples,
check out the dependency
injection guide
in the official
Angular documentation.